now as we heard earlier from our
correspondent an International Peace
Summit in the Egyptian Capital Cairo has
ended without a breakthrough Regional
and Western leaders have been trying to
deescalate the conflict in Gaza and
ensure that Aid continues to reach
civilians there Arab Nations say it is
now time to end the cycle of violence
between Israel and the
Palestinians Germany's foreign minister
analena barok in Cairo for the so-called
Summit for peace the summit's host
Egyptian president Abdel El Sissi
emphasized protecting civilians but
Germany and other European countries
expressed their support for
Israel Israel has a right to defend
itself and to protect its people against
this Terror within the framework of
international law committing but some
Arab countries say that Israel's air
strikes on Gaza go too far they say
Israel is the one breaking international
law and committing war crimes
Palestinians lives matter less than
Israeli ones Our Lives matter less one
major theme was the Rafa border crossing
between Egypt and Gaza 20 a trucks
passed through on Saturday a glimmer of
hope but a drop in the bucket for a
population of 2 million
people many countries demanded a
ceasefire in Israel's war with Hamas in
the end the participants failed to reach
a comprehensive
agreement get more from DW's Middle East
analyst shie rosanes sh the Cairo Summit
was focused on finding ways to
deescalate this conflict have they had
any success in that regard well for most
of Leaders The Very fact that they were
part of this front this very big front
of Western and Arab countries that for
itself the statement behind that the act
of solidarity with the Palestinians
behind it was a a big start um nobody
had HED I mean it was a bit uh too
optimistic to think all of these players
even within the Arab world there's so
much um uh inner strife and and
disagreements on the Palestinian issue
and the Iran issue and the Hamas issue
the idea that they will all manage to
get one resolution at the end is I think
at this time of age a bit too optimistic
unfortunately uh the key issue was
taking care of the humanitarian aid for
the Palestinians we've seen more Western
uh pledges to help um which was
important it was also a symbolic step
for the Arab country to see the the need
um for the the the Western World to show
their support to the Palestinian step up
not just to Israel and its needs but
also to the suffering of the
Palestinians and in that aspect it's a
relative success for AI uh this was his
modest goal and I think he achieved it
yes we heard them talking about pushing
back against what they call a global
silence on the suffering of the
Palestinians um you mentioned
humanitarian Aid was a big topic can you
tell us a little bit about what
specifically came out of that meeting
well Israel is uh you know the the main
crossing point now available is is the
Egyptian one um Israel is very strict in
what it will allow or will not allow the
the biggest cont most contested uh uh
article now on the table is fuel and gas
I mean of course it is needed in order
to feed the generators and the water
pumps and so on into Gaza but um unra
itself has already said this week that
there have been a case of of of Hamas
probably Hamas militants taking over
some of their fuel reserves and Israel
is very much concerned with how do we
bring this fuel in without letting it
fall into the wrong hands without
letting the militants get even more of
an advantage um and so this will be for
now they're being very strong uh and
they're insistent not to let it in but
I'm not sure how long they can you know
stand off uh this pressure yeah I'd like
to ask you a little bit more about the
geopolitics and potential um dealmakers
what about Qatar as a possible mediator
here we know that they were uh involved
in brokering that deal to free the two
American uh women hostages over correct
we've seen it over the weekend Qatar is
actually in an unbelievable position it
manages to be simultaneously an ally to
um Hamas and Iran um and at the same
time also to the US the biggest American
uh uh base in the Middle East is located
in Qatar which also gives them a lot of
Leverage and connections with the
Americans um so they managed you know
they the Qatar and the Saudis were their
neighboring big uh you know uh
influential uh country have a very
contested relationship with very complex
history connected also to uh the qatar's
uh connections with Iran which is Saudi
Arabia's Arch Enemy so interestingly
enough this very small Kingdom manages
to be now a a king maker a a power
player and hopefully maybe the only
force in the region to help in bringing
out some of the hostages uh that are
kept in Gaza uh tell me more about uh
the situation of those hostages I
understand we've been talking about a
looming ground offensive potentially
from Israeli forces and I know there is
criticism from some families within
Israel about um a ground offensive that
could also jeopardize hostages there
what is that debate looking like at the
moment a lot of painful dilemmas for
Israelis um on the one hand exactly
there's the pressure from the families
of the hostages and we also hear from
qataris there's an interview today for
uh the German publication velt where we
a top Aid of the foreign U minister of
Qatar saying he believes they are close
to being able to bring some hostages out
so there's always these hopes there's
always this trickle of rumors which
plays in a psychological warfare very
crucial role and perhaps uh Israeli um
defense uh uh officials are concerned
maybe this is an attempt for Hamas to
push away U Israeli uh Invasion or
Israeli ground operation um so far it
seems to be working Israel is very
careful um we've I think everybody
expected Israeli to be far more
aggressive in its uh inclusion into Gaza
so far it's been a bit more cautious
probably because of that still the next
days are crucial in bringing solution to
the hostages situation shaie thank you
so much for that analysis that is DW's
Middle East analyst shaie
rosanes